docs: home pg, quickstart move, gh icon (#463)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Gym: docs/index.md

:link: about/concepts/index
:link-type: doc
Explore the core components: Agents, Models, and Resources.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`agents` {bdg-secondary}`models` {bdg-secondary}`resources`
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`globe;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Ecosystem
:link: about/ecosystem
:link-type: doc
Understand how NeMo Gym fits within the NVIDIA NeMo Framework.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`nemo-framework`
:::

::::

## Get Started

Install and run NeMo Gym to start collecting rollouts.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 1 1 1 2

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`rocket;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Quickstart
:link: get-started/index
:link-type: doc
Run a training environment and start collecting rollouts in under 5 minutes.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`package;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Setup and Installation
:link: get-started/setup-installation
:link-type: doc
Install NeMo Gym and run your first training environment.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`environment` {bdg-secondary}`configuration`
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`iterations;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Rollout Collection
:link: get-started/rollout-collection
:link-type: doc
Batch processing, parameter tuning, and the rollout viewer tool.
+++

> {bdg-secondary}`training-data` {bdg-secondary}`scale`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{bdg-secondary}`rollouts` {bdg-secondary}`training-data`
```

:::

::::

## Tutorials

Hands-on tutorials to build and customize your training environments.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 1 1 1 2

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`tools;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Build a Resource Server
:link: tutorials/creating-resource-server
:link-type: doc

> Implement custom tools and define task verification logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement or integrate existing tools and define task verification logic.
```

content_type: index
---

(gym-home)=

# NeMo Gym Documentation

NeMo Gym is a framework for building reinforcement learning (RL) training environments large language models (LLMs). Gym provides training environment development scaffolding and training environment patterns such as multi-step, multi-turn, and user modeling scenarios.

At the core of NeMo Gym are three server concepts: **Responses API Model servers** are model endpoints, **Resources servers** contain tool implementations and verification logic, and **Response API Agent servers** orchestrate the interaction between models and resources.

````{div} sd-d-flex-row
```{button-ref} gs-quickstart
:ref-type: ref
:color: primary
:class: sd-rounded-pill sd-mr-3

Quickstart
```

```{button-ref} tutorials/index
:ref-type: doc
:color: secondary
:class: sd-rounded-pill

Explore Tutorials
```
````

---

## Introduction to Gym

Learn about NeMo Gym, how it works at a high level, and the key concepts.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 1 1 1 2

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`book;1.5em;sd-mr-1` About Gym
:link: about/index
:link-type: doc
Overview of NeMo Gym and its capabilities for building RL training environments.
+++

> {bdg-secondary}`target-users` {bdg-secondary}`how-it-works`

Reviewer: I also dont think the about page is best described as how it works? i think the focus is on motivation and benefits

:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`gear;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Concepts
:link: about/concepts/index
:link-type: doc
Explore the core components: Agents, Models, and Resources.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`agents` {bdg-secondary}`models` {bdg-secondary}`resources`
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`globe;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Ecosystem
:link: about/ecosystem
:link-type: doc
Understand how NeMo Gym integrates with NeMo RL and other training frameworks.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`nemo-rl` {bdg-secondary}`integrations`
:::

::::

## Get Started

Install and run NeMo Gym to start collecting rollouts.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 1 1 1 2

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`rocket;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Quickstart
:link: get-started/index
:link-type: doc
Run a training environment and start collecting rollouts in under 5 minutes.
+++
{bdg-primary}`beginner`
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`package;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Setup and Installation
:link: get-started/setup-installation
:link-type: doc

> Complete guide with requirements, model provider options, and troubleshooting.

Reviewer: I don't think it's accurate to include model provider options. we only demonstrate using the OpenAI API as part of getting started. Maybe something like this? Install NeMo Gym and run your first training environment

+++
{bdg-secondary}`environment` {bdg-secondary}`configuration`
:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`iterations;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Rollout Collection
:link: get-started/rollout-collection
:link-type: doc
Batch processing, parameter tuning, and the rollout viewer tool.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`training-data` {bdg-secondary}`scale`
:::

::::

## Tutorials

Hands-on tutorials to build and customize your training environments.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 1 1 1 2

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`tools;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Build a Resource Server
:link: tutorials/creating-resource-server
:link-type: doc
Implement custom tools and define task verification logic.
+++
{bdg-secondary}`custom-environments` {bdg-secondary}`tools`
:::

> :::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`database;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Offline Training

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`database;1.5em;sd-mr-1` Offline Training (SFT, DPO)
```

make the link to SFT and DPO explicit

:link: tutorials/offline-training-w-rollouts
:link-type: doc

> Train models offline using collected rollouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Train with SFT or DPO using collected rollouts.
```

+++

> {bdg-secondary}`training` {bdg-secondary}`datasets`

Reviewer: can we use sft, dpo as the tags

:::

:::{grid-item-card} {octicon}`zap;1.5em;sd-mr-1` RL Training with NeMo RL
:link: tutorials/rl-training-with-nemo-rl
:link-type: doc

> Integrate NeMo Gym with NeMo RL for end-to-end RL training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Train with GRPO using NeMo RL and NeMo Gym. 
```
